We are what we are, and we're doing the best we can. It is not for you to set the standards by which we should be judged!
If there is one ideal that the Federation holds most dear, it is that all men, all races can be united
There is a way out of every box, a solution to every puzzle; it's just a matter of finding it
Things are only impossible until they're not
If your issues are with me, then deal with me. This has nothing to do with my ship, nothing to do with the Federation!
All I can say is that although we have only been together for a short time, I know that you are the finest crew in the fleet. And I would trust each of you with my life. So, I am asking you for a leap of faith — and to trust me.
Buried deep within you, beneath all the years of pain and anger, there is something that has never been nurtured: the potential to make yourself a better man. And that is what it is to be human. To make yourself more than you are. Oh, yes — I know you. There was a time you looked at the stars and dreamed of what might be.
Time is a companion that goes with us on a journey. It reminds us to cherish each moment, because it will never come again. What we leave behind is not as important as how we have lived.
Live now. Make now always the most precious time. Now will never come again
The road from legitimate suspicion to rampant paranoia is very much shorter than we think
No being is so important that he can usurp the rights of another
Villains who twirl their moustaches are easy to spot. Those who clothe themselves in good deeds are well-camouflaged
It is possible to commit no mistakes and still lose. That is not a weakness; that is life.
The Prime Directive is not just a set of rules; it is a philosophy ... and a very correct one.
History has proven again and again that whenever mankind interferes with a less developed civilization, no matter how well intentioned that interference may be, the results are invariably disastrous
I'd be delighted to offer any advice I have on understanding women. When I have some, I'll let you know.
Make it so!
you can test that assumption at your convenience
The first duty of love is to listen.
Wisdom is the reward you get for a lifetime of listening when you’d have preferred to talk
You never really understand a person until you consider things from his point of view
Knowledge speaks, but wisdom listens.
One of the greatest skills any leader can master is becoming comfortable with silence.
You cannot truly listen to anyone and do anything else at the same time
Listen like every sentence matters; talk like every word counts.
There is nothing higher than Brahman. Everything in the universe is strung on Brahman like jewels on the thread of a necklace.

